cmake: compiler: enhance LLVM/Clang and LLD support (#110283)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: doc/develop/toolchains/host.rst

Host Toolchains
###############

> In some configurations, you may want to use native compiler toolchains installed on your host operating system rather than the pre-packaged cross-compilers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some configurations, you may want to use compiler toolchains installed on your host operating system rather than Zephyr's SDK pre-packaged cross-compilers.
```
maybe better?

Author: Sure, will apply.

Using Host GCC
==============

> To build using the host's native GCC compiler, set the :envvar:`ZEPHYR_TOOLCHAIN_VARIANT` environment variable to ``host/gnu``. This is typically used when building for native POSIX emulation targets or specific non-MCU x86 configurations on a Linux host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build using the host's native GCC compiler, set the :envvar:`ZEPHYR_TOOLCHAIN_VARIANT` environment variable to ``host/gnu``. This is typically used when building for native simulator (POSIX architecture) based targets on a Linux host.
```

Author: I will apply this.

> Using Host LLVM/Clang (``host/llvm``)

Reviewer: This section is covering only building for embedded targets, but ignores the current use case of building for native simulator based targets with clang.
Maybe there should be a section for each?

Author: I will create a section for native builds

Host Toolchains
###############

In some configurations, you may want to use compiler toolchains installed on your host operating system rather than Zephyr's SDK pre-packaged cross-compilers.

Using Host GCC
==============

To build using the host's native GCC compiler, set the :envvar:`ZEPHYR_TOOLCHAIN_VARIANT` environment variable to ``host/gnu``. This is typically used when building for native simulator (POSIX architecture) based targets on a Linux host.

Using Host LLVM/Clang (``host/llvm``)
=====================================

Building for Native Simulator Targets
-------------------------------------

You can also use host-installed LLVM/Clang for building native simulator (POSIX architecture) based targets on Linux. This uses the host OS's native C library and system headers rather than the embedded Zephyr SDK sysroots.

Building for Embedded Targets
-----------------------------

> Zephyr allows you to build standard embedded bare-metal firmware using a host-installed version of LLVM/Clang (such as Apple Clang, Homebrew LLVM, or package-managed LLVM on Linux) while dynamically binding to the bare-metal runtimes and sysroots shipped inside the Zephyr SDK.

Reviewer 2: I think this runs past the maximum line length for an RST document.  Might want to check the coding style document to verify you're inline with it.

Author: You're right, I will fix that.

> Building for Native Simulator Targets

Reviewer: Maybe put this section above the previous, and make the `Setup and Variables` section below be a subsection of the embedded one? (the SDK runtime lib part would only apply to embedded)

Author: done

-------------------------------------

> You can also use host-installed LLVM/Clang for building native simulator (POSIX architecture) based targets on Linux and macOS hosts. This uses the host OS's native C library and system headers rather than the embedded Zephyr SDK sysroots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use host-installed LLVM/Clang for building native simulator (POSIX architecture) based targets on Linux. This uses the host OS's native C library and system headers rather than the embedded Zephyr SDK sysroots.
```
Not for macos.

Author: corrected
